README.md, before:

# COVID-19 US Data REST API

A REST API for the US COVID-19 data gathered by [nytimes](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data).

## Docker Image Details

[hub.docker.com/repository/docker/desholmes/covid-19-us-api](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/desholmes/covid-19-us-api).

* Registry: desholmes
* Repository name: covid-19-us-api
* Current version: 1.0.0

## Using the API

The following starts a local server running on port 8000:

```bash
docker run -it -p 8000:8000 desholmes/covid-19-us-api:1.0.0
```

| URL | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [us/counties/](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/counties/) | Returns all county-level data: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/counties/?date=2020-03-20](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/counties/) | Returns all county-level data for a `date`: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/states/](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/state/) | Returns all state-level data: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/states/?date=2020-03-20](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/state/) | Returns all state-level data for a `date`: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |

## Getting Started (Development)

### Prerequisites

1. Installation of [Docker CE](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community)
1. Installation of [git SCM](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
1. Knowledge of [Python 3.7.3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
1. Knowledge of [Django 3.0.4](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
1. Knowledge of [Django REST framework 3.11.0](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/)

Development takes place inside a docker container to:

1. Remove the need for a local virtual environment
1. Ensure the DEV environment is a close as possible to PROD

### Set up

1. Complete the 'Getting Started > Prerequisites' section
1. By default the app is configure for local development. Running `make build-cold` stand your local env up from scratch (not to be used for PROD)
1. Open [0.0.0.0:8000](http://0.0.0.0:8000/) in a browser to see the app running
1. Changing files in `covid_19_us` will cause the app to reload
1. Press `CTL+c` to stop the docker container

If you want to configure the application step-by-step follow the steps below:

1. Run `make setup`: To create the `.env` file from `.env-dist`
1. Configure the following in `.env`:
    1. **PORT**: The port the Django server will be exposed on (default 8000)
    1. **DEBUG**: Enable the app to run in development mode using `python3 manage.py runserver`, with live reloading of files changed in `covid_19_us` (default 1)
    1. **DEV**: Enables [DEBUG](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/howto/deployment/checklist/) for the app (default 1)
    1. **QA**: Enables [flake8](https://pypi.org/project/flake8/) to be run against code on initial run, not live reload (default 1)
    1. **SECRET_KEY**: Secret key for the app, replace `add_me` with a random string (default 'add_me')
1. Run `make build`: To create the docker image
1. Run `make run`: To run the docker image as a container
1. Open [0.0.0.0:8000](http://0.0.0.0:8000/) in a browser to see the app running
1. The 2 above commands can be run using `make build-run`
1. Press CTL+c to stop the docker container

## Credits

* [nytimes](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) for providing the data
* [Xavier Ordoquy (xordoquy)](https://medium.com/django-rest-framework/django-rest-framework-viewset-when-you-don-t-have-a-model-335a0490ba6f) and his [demo code](https://github.com/linovia/drf-demo) for creating a non-model Django REST API

## Version History

1. `1.0.0`: Base repo with DBless Django app

Commit message:

Adding hosted URL, updated docs

README.md, after:

# COVID-19 US Data REST API

A REST API for the US COVID-19 data gathered by [nytimes](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data).

## Docker Image Details

[hub.docker.com/repository/docker/desholmes/covid-19-us-api](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/desholmes/covid-19-us-api).

* Registry: desholmes
* Repository name: covid-19-us-api
* Current version: 1.0.0

## Using the API

A hosted version version of the API can be found at [covid-19-us-api.dholmes.co.uk](https://covid-19-us-api.dholmes.co.uk).

The following starts a local server running on port 8000:

```bash
docker run -it -p 8000:8000 desholmes/covid-19-us-api:1.0.0
```

| URL | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [us/counties/](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/counties/) | Returns all county-level data: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/counties/?date=2020-03-20](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/counties/) | Returns all county-level data for a `date`: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/states/](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/state/) | Returns all state-level data: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |
| [us/states/?date=2020-03-20](http://0.0.0.0:8000/us/state/) | Returns all state-level data for a `date`: date, county, state, fips, cases, deaths |

## Getting Started (Development)

### Prerequisites

1. Installation of [Docker CE](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community)
1. Installation of [git SCM](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
1. Knowledge of [Python 3.7.3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
1. Knowledge of [Django 3.0.4](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
1. Knowledge of [Django REST framework 3.11.0](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/)

Development takes place inside a docker container to:

1. Remove the need for a local virtual environment
1. Ensure the DEV environment is a close as possible to PROD

### Set up

1. Complete the 'Getting Started > Prerequisites' section
1. By default the app is configure for local development. Running `make build-cold` stand your local env up from scratch (not to be used for PROD)
1. Open [0.0.0.0:8000](http://0.0.0.0:8000/) in a browser to see the app running
1. Changing files in `covid_19_us` will cause the app to reload
1. Press `CTL+c` to stop the docker container

If you want to configure the application step-by-step follow the steps below:

1. Run `make setup`: To create the `.env` file from `.env-dist`
1. Configure the following in `.env`:
    1. **PORT**: The port the Django server will be exposed on (default 8000)
    1. **DEBUG**: Enable the app to run in development mode using `python3 manage.py runserver`, with live reloading of files changed in `covid_19_us` (default 1)
    1. **DEV**: Enables [DEBUG](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/howto/deployment/checklist/) for the app (default 1)
    1. **QA**: Enables [flake8](https://pypi.org/project/flake8/) to be run against code on initial run, not live reload (default 1)
    1. **SECRET_KEY**: Secret key for the app, replace `add_me` with a random string (default 'add_me')
1. Run `make build`: To create the docker image
1. Run `make run`: To run the docker image as a container
1. Open [0.0.0.0:8000](http://0.0.0.0:8000/) in a browser to see the app running
1. The 2 above commands can be run using `make build-run`
1. Press CTL+c to stop the docker container

## Credits

* [nytimes](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) for providing the data
* [Xavier Ordoquy (xordoquy)](https://medium.com/django-rest-framework/django-rest-framework-viewset-when-you-don-t-have-a-model-335a0490ba6f) and his [demo code](https://github.com/linovia/drf-demo) for creating a non-model Django REST API

## Version History

1. `1.0.0`: Base repo with DBless Django app
